---
title: "🤖 GAIPE101"
layout: post
date: 2023-06-19 9:00
tag: course
image: /assets/images/jumapfptest.jpeg
headerImage: true
projects: true
#hidden: true # don't count this post in blog pagination
description: "Course on Generative AI & Prompt Engineering 101 (ChatGPT)"
category: project
author: juma
externalLink: false
---

This post will be about a course I entered called GAIPE (Generative AI & Prompt Engineering 101). I will try to include the most important notes that were said from the course. Anything else I deem that doesn't really add value I will most likely ignore, I will add as much as I can however.

09:00 AM - A success story using ChatGPT

Joao Santos has a success story that uses ChatGPT as his CEO for his one month business test. This began with a prompt of asking GPT to create a business with 2 conditions, it starts with only a budget of 1k$ and he can only spend 1 hour per day on the business. It replied with 3 answers giving 3 ideas, the first 2 being non-scalable they were ideas about services such as starting online courses & providing teaching services, & the 3rd was scalable & the one idea chosen which is about printing on demand images on shirts.

GPT was also used to create even more required items such as articles of association, legal documents, emails & etc.

Joao was able to gain many views on his store & generated 10K Euro in revenue in the first 5 days. It's also important to know that his linkedin post hit 5m views with over 30K in likes, in which he showed a image generated by AI. He also uses GPT to answer people's request when they want to do a partnership with his company, by asking GPT about what he should do & what are the things that GPT recommends for the person to take.

Totally, GPT has handled the following fairly important prompts as of now:
- Choose a scalable, profitable business // Answer: Print-on-demand store // 1 Good choice
- Choose a brand name // Answer: Aisthetic Apparel // Good Response
- Choose our price points // Answer: T-Shirts: 35 EUR & Hoodies: 99 EUR // Reasonable for premium, unique brand
- Influencer marketing proposal to Printful // Answer: 170,000 EUR to feature their brand // Very bad response & unreasonably high
- Draft our legal docs // Answer: Drafts Completed // documents were poor, needed some extra lifting from experienced people
- PR statements // Answer: Speeches and announcements // Good

It's good to know that when taking any answer from GPT it's crucial to have at least a decent amount of experience in said field to make sure that GPT isn't making a mistake as it can do fairly often depending on the context & depth of the said "Question".

This was highlighted as important during the course. For the best results, according to industry experts:
Ask GPT a question, then say: "Please answer like an expert in the field". Finally, ask it to break down the topic into sections.

AI has also changed the startup game tremendously, since its now really easy to make a startup since its really cheap.

Helpful ways / How to go viral:
1. Study the algorithim of the platform where you want to post content.
What are the best practises so algorithim recommends your post?
From the information said, the way to make the aglo push a certain post to more people is by getting comments/likes?

1. Study the audience that is most likely to read your content
At the start it will be mostly people in connects & followers space, but what do people care about & what is the hot topic of the week/month? Study the answers & base your post on this answers.

1. Play against the status quo:
If everyone is already on GPT maybe its a better idea to post about something else & essentailly trying to be unique and not being in a heavily saturated market. 

Posting frequency is also said to be better to be Quality over Quantity (1 per week rather than 1 per day)

---

10:15 AM - 2nd Section Generative AI & Prompt Engineering fundamentals by Dr. Ahmed Alali​

Types of machine learning
1. Unsupervised learning - 
2. Surpervised learning - 
3. Reinforcement learning - 

Nowadays they are all going down towards a different learning method called:
Self supervised learning AKA Large Language Models (LLM)

Generative AI like ChatGPT was trained on 3 steps:
1. Self supervised learning
2. Zero-shot instruction tuning
3. Reinforcement learning with human feedback.

Why is Generative AI big?
It's important to know generative AI started really long time ago around 10 years so its nothing new. but long story short, it's it's because its extremely practicle now with ChatGPT. Reacting 100M users in 2 months which is the number 1 growing platform compared to the 2nd most which is tiktok which took 9 months to reach the same amount of users. With this its position in the graph is rather high on the Y axis where Y is labeled as the hype for a certain technology. Its rather high now, but will die out in some time and then float in a medium/average height where it belongs.

Types of generative AI:
- text generation: text input > text output
- Image generation: text or image input > image output
- Video generation: text input > video output
- Speech to Text: audio input > text output

Popular Text Gen AI's:
Commercial:
- GPT4 - GPT3 but way more powerful
- PALM - Claims superior performance in Math & code translation
- Github Co-pilot - Code Generated by AI (suggestions & better intellisense)
- Cohere - Used to power LLM

Open-Source:
- Falcon: largest fully opensource LLM
- LlaMA: focused for research, not for commercial

Prompt Engineering:
Essentially manipulating GPT to answer in a certain way, GPT has a strong learning curve where it shapes a flipped log graph.
In order to give good prompts these are good guidelines.
- Make your prompt clear & specific.
- Specify the steps for the task.
- Ask the model to show its work.

4 Main steps/topics to consider when building a AI responsive app to do a task (example talk to customers)
Web application (no code based app) > Generative AI choice (GPT,Falcon, etc.) > Generative AI Dev Tools (Chainlink, Rules?) > Backend (DB & API's)

Now we go over AI applications
- RunwayML - used to create a video using just a prompt. However the generate video is rather limited & is not in a high fidelity (rather noisy).
- DeepOpinion - used for documentation or any sort of document related questions. It was used in this lecture by using a document and asking the AI to extract from it the invoice related information such as dates, fees, & invoice numbers. The input was actually in PNG format not pdf even.

Closing notes: They discussed showing how build a web to use a LLM based model in a website using no code tools such as langflow.
Essentially looks like a flowchart except the blocks hold only important information such as what webdesign to go for & GPT API Key & any other important information required from the user to execute a functioning website.

He showed a POC of a web in langflow and asked it a question relating to what is this document about & pasted the document as the website of this generative course. It then produced correct answers saying that it was about course on genearative AI tapping into fundamentals, emerging technology & etc. It was asked what the author names were & was able to say all of the names correctly.

The point of this ending was to show that even without a technological background anyone could use something like this.

---

11:15 AM - Break


---

11:35 AM - 


---

Notes for the GAIPE101 2023 Course, held on the 19th of July 2023
